Childcare services, established in Italy in 1971 as "social services of public interest" and supplementary services for early childhood, introduced in the late 1990s, are characterized by greater organizational flexibility. These services were instituted as welfare benefits, with the main purpose of supporting parents -women in particular- in childcare and participation to the job market. There are several difficulties for the supply system to respond quickly to changes of socio-cultural frameworks and the concrete need for educational services with high-quality standards throughout the country. Several analyses developed thanks to the collaboration between the Department of Family Policies, ISTAT (National Institute of Statistics), and the Ca' Foscari University of Venice - Department of Economics showed the persistence of important issues [1]. First, a structural lack has emerged in the availability of early childhood education services concerning potential demand (children under the age of 3 years). Second, the distribution of childcare services is deeply irregular in the national territory. Focusing on the level of service coverage, we can note a first substantial supply variability. For example, the North-East and Central Italy confirm the level of coverage above the European target set at 33% (with 34.5% and 35.3% respectively), and North-West Italy is getting closer to the target (31.4%), while the South and the islands are still far from the target (with 14.5% and 15.75% respectively). In this work, we aim to analyze the supply and demand structure of childcare services to understand how they differ within the Italian system. The analysis was developed at the level of administrative units, and the main objective is to find clusters of units, beyond the geographical aspects, similar in terms of such supply and demand structure. We focus on demand data at the sub-provincial territorial level, because a strong supply variability was also observed within the region and the province, and in practice there is not always a regional level of government, since some administrative units have a similar supply to other administrative units that are geographically distant. We focus on 2019 data on childcare services from the ISTAT survey [Indagine su nidi e servizi integrativi per la prima infanzia] (https://www.istat.it/it/archivio/267291) that characterizes the supply side and its structure. We include relevant cultural and social conditions, such as the birth rate, the presence of family support (i.e., grandparents), and the work type of the parents, that could characterize the structure of the demand. These information are measured via female labor force, municipal expenditure per capita, old age rate, nursery school places, and are extracted from the permanent census 2019 (https://www.istat.it/it/censimenti-permanenti/popolazione-e-abitazioni). Clustering methods with spatial/geographical constraints allow us to understand the variability of the supply/demand combination within the Italian territory, despite the geographical distance.

[1] Universit?? Ca' Foscari, Dipartimento per le politiche della famiglia, Istat and MIPA. Nidi e servizi educativi per la prima infanzia, stato dell'arte, criticit?? e sviluppi del sistema educativo integrato 0-6. ISTAT, 2020.