The main aim of this work consists in the identification of neighbourhood clusters where an increased risk of hospitalized fractures for elderly people living in Turin, a city in north-western Italy, is observed. The task is carried out through two main steps: first, the balance of individual characteristics to estimate the neighbourhood effect; second, the aggregation of neighbourhoods into clusters. The neighbourhood effect is the independent causal effect of a neighbourhood on any number of health and/or social outcomes. Its estimation, carried out with observational data, is particularly challenging because of the not casual mechanism of self-selection of individuals into neighbourhoods that cause selection bias. To solve the selection bias making neighbourhoods comparable with respect to observable confounders, we exploited a balancing technique based on partially ordered sets (poset) called Matching on poset based Average Rank for Multiple Treatment (MARMoT). On the balanced dataset, we used a spatial scan capable of identifying the presence of clusters and quantifying the increased risk, and we checked whether the risk of fracture for the subjects is constant across the territory or is significantly higher in some contiguous areas (known as geographical clusters). In conclusion, thanks to the combination of both MARMoT procedure and a spatial scan, it was possible to highlight two clusters of neighbourhoods in Turin where the risk of incurring in a hospitalized fracture for elderly people is significantly higher. This is a starting point to implement focused prevention policies and reduce the occurrence of fractures among the elderly.