Studies on intergenerational mobility and the effects of parents education on children often fail in evaluating the intergenerational impact of socioeconomic and cultural characteristics of ascendents. Traditional mobility analyses, typically based on retrospective information provided by  cross-sectional surveys, measure the effect of parents' characteristics on offspring's outcomes using existing parent' child associations instead of accounting for changes in family size and structure that may occur between the generations. In particular, using retrospective survey-data, regression estimates of the impact of ascendents' education are based on samples of offspring. In such a way, we can at best observe the impact of changing a woman's education after she has given birth to a child included in the sample, accounting for other family characteristics. Therefore, the estimated impact of a mother's education is necessarily conditioned on whether it is assumed that she has already given birth and, in this context, has formed a union with a child's father.
More recent studies use a "prospective" approach, based on longitudinal surveys that take into account the entire reproductive life of the ascendents, such as in Mare and Maralani (2006), where change in educational status of offspring can be observed over time, as well as the association of educational status and fertility of the subjects belonging to the generation of ascendents. In other cases, ""prospective"" information is also derived from cross - sectional surveys by interviewing older individuals in families. (Breen et al., 2019; Skopek & Leopold, 2020). The aim of our analysis, however, is to re-evaluate the use of offspring' s retrospective information taken from cross-sectional surveys, such as the Bank of Italy's Survey on Household's Income and Wealth (SHIW), by introducing a procedure that allows us to correct the bias due to the incomplete information about fertility of the generation of ascendents.
The gain in using retrospective data from the SHIW survey lies in the abundance and quality of information about offspring. In particular, the SHIW survey on Italian families at the year 2010 provides interesting information about social capital and values transmission from ascendents to offspring. This latter aspect has not yet been sufficiently explored in the field of intergenerational transmission of education, at least as regards the Italian case.

Breen, R., Ermisch, J., & Helske, S. (2019). Educational reproduction in Europe: A descriptive account. Demographic Research, 41(December). https://doi.org/10.4054/DemRes.2019.41.49
Mare, R. D., & Maralani, V. (2006). The Intergenerational Effects of Changes in Women's Educational Attainments. American Sociological Review, 71(4), 542-564
Skopek, J., & Leopold, T. (2020). Educational Reproduction in Germany: A Prospective Study Based on Retrospective Data. Demography, 57(4), 1241-1270. https://doi.org/10.1007/s13524-020-00896-2
