It is well known that the Great Recession (GR) had a detrimental impact on men's rather than on women's employment. In Italy during the Great Recession men's unemployment rates have increased, while women's unemployment levels have remained almost stable, and in many sectors even declined. Despite long-standing interest on gender roles, in a general context of  women's increasing educational and labour force participation, much remains to be known on the multiple ways in which the economic downturn (hitting men harder than women) has shaped family lives in Italy, as in many other Developed countries. We use data from the Italian Time Use survey carried out during the early phases of the economic downturn (2008-09) and when the effects of the recession are more evident (2014-15). We select a subsample of married or cohabiting couples, with at least one child aged 0-14 years, and focus on unpaid work activities (housework, childcare, adults' care). With the aim of understanding if and how the couples' labor market participation has changed during the recessionary period, and if such changes have fostered different unpaid work negotiation mechanisms, we focus on 6 couple typologies defined by the paid work related characteristics of each partner. Our main variable of interest is the proportion of female unpaid work contribution on the couple's total unpaid workload. 
We estimate OLS regression models to understand if the division of unpaid work activities significantly differs among each of the work-related couple typologies identified, net of several individual characteristics, and include interaction terms in order to understand if significant changes have occurred in the negotiation of unpaid work among the different work related couple typologies during the recessionary period.  
Results confirm that couple patterns of labor market participation changes significantly before and after the GR: the proportion of couples where one of the partner is unemployed triples, but in such couple typologies not significant changes in the division of unpaid work is observed. Women significantly reduces their share of time dedicated to unpaid work, only in three couple typologies: male breadwinner, dual earners, and one-and-a-half earners. A gender display mechanism emerges: when men are the unemployed partner, they do not perform the same amount of unpaid work carried out by unemployed women with a working partner. While working women with an unemployed partner perform the same amount of unpaid work with respect to their counterparts in dual earner couples.
