Ongoing technological change has led to a steadily growing demand for Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) graduates worldwide due to their prominence in contemporary economies' development, productivity, and growth. But not only do STEM disciplines have a low attractiveness in some contexts, such as in the US and Italy; it is also a matter of persistence in pursuing STEM studies, affected by high rates of dropout and course switches in several countries. Thus, the increase in enrolment in STEM fields occurred in some countries has not been followed by a higher number of graduates, translating into a failure and a wastefulness both at the university- and at the student- level. In this context, identifying at-risk STEM students to dropout or switch is an essential and challenging issue for delivering university interventions aiming to reduce failure and dropout rates.
This work aims to investigate the academic outcomes of Italian university students who decided to enrol in a STEM course for the first time. More specifically, we are interested in understanding which micro-, meso- and macro-level characteristics play a role in predicting students' graduation, dropout, or course switch among those enrolled in a STEM course. Moreover, we intend to verify if there is a relationship between the athenaeum of enrolment and students' performances in terms of graduation, dropout, or course switch. In doing so, we rely on some characteristics of the athenaeum where the student is enrolled, such as admission requirements and rates, services offered, and so on.
The analyses are conducted using administrative microdata from the Italian Ministry for Universities and Research and selecting students enrolled in a STEM discipline between 2010 and 2015. Then, we employ multilevel, multinomial logistic regression models to investigate the relationship between micro-, meso- and macro-level characteristics and students' academic outcomes within four years after enrolment. In particular, the response variable regarding students' outcomes has four categories, distinguishing between students who graduated, who dropped out of the course, who have changed the course, and those who were still enrolled in the same course. 
Preliminary results show that variables such as the high school final mark and the type of high school play a role in predicting students' academic outcomes. Further analyses will point to verify if there is an association between the athenaeum of enrolment and students' performances in terms of graduation, dropout, or course switch.