Over the last decades, Social Network Analysis (SNA), its visualization techniques and analytical tools have known a considerable diffusion in analyzing social phenomena. Network-based empirical applications, even within different theoretical frameworks, have emphasized the added value of this approach devoted to the definition and the analysis of social structures by means of relational data and graph theory. 
The main aim of this contribution is to show the importance of SNA methods by presenting several applications on real data regarding mobility studies, individual perception, and social support. 
The first investigated topic is students' mobility. Different studies on secondary data have been developed at national and international levels. Network structures are defined considering data about incoming and outgoing students' flows among territories and universities gathered from the MOBYSU.IT database for the Italian context and the EU Open Data Portal for the international one. Network centrality measures allow for investigating the role and the position of Italian provinces in both the I and II level of education. It also permits investigating the roles played by countries in the Erasmus mobility network by looking at students' participation in Erasmus programs. 
Moreover, a multiplex network approach has been developed for both Italian and Erasmus mobility data. As regards the Italian students' mobility choices from bachelor's to master's degrees, the multiplex network has been defined considering the ISCED-F fields of education and training as the layers, the Italian universities as the nodes, and the flows of students as the weighted and directed links. Concerning the Erasmus data, different levels of mobility have been considered to define three non-interconnected layers: students' mobility, academic staff mobility, and universities/countries collaboration networks. The link between pairs of countries depends on the layers. The mobility layer is related to students' or teachers' travels, while the collaboration layer defines the co-participation of universities/countries in the same projects. In these studies, network centrality measures and layers similarity indexes are computed to highlight the presence of core university/country and to verify overlapping network structures among the layers. 
Relational data can also be drawn from primary data. Moving from a pilot survey administered to students enrolled in an Italian university, the impact of online education tools on students' learning experiences and habits during the Covid-19 pandemic has been explored. Several network structures have been derived from students' perceptions of distance learning experience and social support. As regards students' perceptions of e-learning experience, scores given to pairs of opposite adjectives included in semantic differential scales have been used to give rise to a network of adjectives characterizing the meaning of the investigated concepts. As regards the Social Support dimension, students have been asked to indicate the person profiles to whom they address or would address to deal with specific circumstances in case of necessity. A role relational approach has been applied to reveal students' informational, emotional, and instrumental support networks.