In contemporary ageing societies, parents and their children spend longer periods of their lives together, along which they remain involved in one another's lives and represent enduring sources of solidarity. The family is universally acknowledged as a welfare institution that promotes intergenerational solidarity and the redistribution of resources across generations. However, over the past 50 years, as a result of the increasing complexity of family structure, the nature of parent-child relationships has changed rapidly. In this paper, I use data from Family and Social Subject 2016 to analyse whether and how family structure is associated with associational solidarity (i.e. parent-child contact frequency) between adult children and older parents. Three forms of contact, i.e. in-person contact, phone calls, and digital contact, are used as indicators of social ties that offer the opportunity for sharing experiences and exchanging support. The results from random intercept multilevel models show that separated parents (particularly fathers) have less frequent contact with their adult children aged 40 or over, compared to married or cohabiting parents. The results remain similar across different model specifications, i.e. logistic, ordered, or linear probability random intercept models. Two explanations are provided by using the variables available in the data. First, the gap in the contact frequency of divorced and married parents is explained in terms of traditional vs. liberal attitudes, identified through several questions in the questionnaire. Second, parental investment during childhood and adolescence partly explain as to why separated parents have less intensive contact with their adult children. The findings provide evidence on how family structure and complexity are associated with a network of potential support providers during older age.     