The Italian education system is characterized by one of the lowest rates of young population with a tertiary education degree (27% against an average of 42% in EU27) and a relatively high proportion of students that obtain their degree with delay (69% against an average 28% in OECD countries in 2021) (OECD, 2019). In this context, understanding why students dropout of the higher education system within their careers is paramount. The recent literature has highlighted several elements that affect students' dropout probability that stem from students' characteristics (age, sex, past mobility choices, socio-economic background) to families' characteristics (Aina et al., 2022). We contribute to this literature by assessing the role of peers in students' dropout decision process. In particular, we define students' dropout status as a binary variable that takes value 1 if the student leaves the Italian higher education system at the beginning of the second year of her/his university career. Students' groups of peers are defined as the set of students enrolled in the same academic year at the same university in the same degree program. Within this framework, the identification of the peers' effects is challenged by the existence of three sources of correlation between students' and peers' outcomes: the correlated, exogenous, and endogenous effects. The correlated effects depend on the fact that students in the same group tend to behave similarly because of the characteristics of the environment (e.g., universities' characteristics). The exogenous effects are related to peers' exogenous characteristics that may affect students' dropout probabilities and endogenous effects that measure how peers' dropout decisions affect the students' ones. We account for correlated effects by including the set of university/degree program fixed effects. In contrast, endogenous and exogenous effects are disentangled using the two-step procedure developed by Bajari et al. (2010). In the first step of the procedure, peers' expected choices are estimated using a sieve estimator by modelling students' choice probabilities as functions of students' and peers' characteristics. In the second step, estimated peers' expected choices are used to estimate the endogenous effects using a logit estimator. This approach is applied to the administrative data regarding all the students enrolled at an Italian university between 2010 and 2016, available from MOBYSU.IT. The dataset includes information on students' characteristics such as their sex, age, high school background, city of residence, and academic careers that help to control the effect of students' and peers' characteristics.